# Interview (Round 2): AI Orchestrator/Architect\n\n**Facilitator:** Welcome again. Your R2 pre-analysis outlined key assets like the orchestration flow diagram and tool interface, plus strategies for context, errors, and modularity. Let\\\'s refine the details.\n\n**Facilitator:** The Orchestration Flow Diagram shows a `Context Prepper` step. What does this involve in the MVP where context comes from the API?\n\n**AI Orchestrator/Architect:** For the MVP, the `Context Prepper` is simple but important. Its responsibilities are:\n1.  **Receive Context:** Get the `file_path` and `content_snippet` (or selection) provided by the VSCode extension via the API call.\n2.  **Format for LLM:** Format this information into a standardized block within the prompt. This might involve adding markdown fences for code, clearly labeling the file path, and potentially adding markers like `<CONTEXT>` tags. Example:\n    ```\n    <CONTEXT file_path=\"example.py\">\n    \`\`\`python\n    # Snippet from example.py\n    [...content snippet...]\n    \`\`\`\n    </CONTEXT>\n    ```\n3.  **Combine with History:** Prepend this formatted context block to the current conversation history before sending the complete prompt payload to the Gemini Client module.\n4.  **Size Limiting (Optional):** It *could* potentially truncate very large snippets here, though ideally, the extension sends reasonably sized context.\nIt essentially ensures the context passed from the frontend is presented cleanly and consistently to the LLM.\n\n**Facilitator:** You proposed a Tool Interface Definition (e.g., ABC/Protocol). Can you sketch out the `ToolResult` object it should return? What fields are essential?\n\n**AI Orchestrator/Architect:** A good `ToolResult` structure (e.g., a Pydantic model or dataclass) would include:\n*   `status`: An enum or string indicating success or failure (e.g., `SUCCESS`, `ERROR`).\n*   `tool_name`: The name of the tool that was executed (e.g., `read_file`, `insert_code_snippet`).\n*   `data`: The successful result of the operation (e.g., file content for `read_file`, maybe a success message for `insert_code_snippet`). Type could be `Any` or use Generics if needed.\n*   `error_type`: If status is `ERROR`, a string indicating the type of error (e.g., `FileNotFoundError`, `PermissionError`, `InvalidLineNumberError`, `GeminiAPIError`, `UnknownError`). This should align with the errors documented by SSE.\n*   `error_message`: If status is `ERROR`, a user-friendly (but informative) error message.\nThis structure provides everything the orchestrator needs to either pass data back to the LLM or handle/report errors effectively.\n\n**Facilitator:** For the Error Handling Strategy, you mentioned mapping tool exceptions. Should the orchestrator attempt any recovery itself, or always pass errors back to the LLM/Agent?\n\n**AI Orchestrator/Architect:** For the MVP, the orchestrator\\\'s role in error handling should be minimal, focusing on reliable detection and reporting. It should:\n1.  **Catch & Standardize:** Catch specific exceptions from tools (e.g., Python\\\'s `FileNotFoundError`) and map them to the standardized `error_type` and `error_message` in the `ToolResult`.\n2.  **Report to Agent:** Pass this standardized `ToolResult` back to the LLM via the function response mechanism.\nLet the agent (guided by PE\\\'s prompts) decide on the recovery strategy (retry, ask user, etc.). The orchestrator shouldn\\\'t contain complex application-level retry logic itself; that belongs in the agent\\\'s reasoning process. The only exception is handling *Gemini API* communication errors, where the orchestrator (or Gemini Client module) should implement basic network retries.\n\n**Facilitator:** Regarding state management for multi-turn conversations, you mentioned passing history or using a cache. Which is more suitable for this MVP?\n\n**AI Orchestrator/Architect:** Passing the history explicitly in the prompt is the simplest and most suitable approach for the MVP. Each API request from the VSCode extension would include the recent chat history. The orchestrator takes this history, adds the latest user message and any new context, calls the LLM, gets the response, and the extension updates its history. This avoids the complexity of server-side state management or caching for a local, single-user application. We just need to be mindful of context window limits and potentially implement history truncation or summarization later if needed.\n\n**Facilitator:** Does the Round 1 analysis or the proposed R2 assets/strategies have any architectural blindspots now?\n\n**AI Orchestrator/Architect:** One area we haven\\\'t explicitly defined is the **API authentication/authorization**. For a purely local MVP running as the user, maybe none is needed. But if we ever envision a shared backend or just for good practice, defining even a simple API key mechanism (passed from extension to backend) might be wise. Also, **observability** – while PA mentioned logging, explicitly defining key metrics (tool success rate, API latency) to track from the start would be valuable for measuring reliability.\n\n**Facilitator:** Any other SMEs needed?\n\n**AI Orchestrator/Architect:** Confirming the need for **Test Engineer** and **Security Engineer** review. Close alignment with **SSE** on module implementation and **PA** on architectural standards is essential.\n\n**Facilitator:** That adds useful clarity to the orchestration layer. Thank you. 